Tom appeared on the sidewalk with a bucket of whitewash and a long-handled brush. He surveyed the fence, and all gladness left him and a deep melancholy settled down upon his spirit. Thirty yards of board fence nine feet high! Life to him seemed hollow, and existence but a burden. Sighing, he dipped his brush and passed it along the topmost plank; repeated the operation; did it again; compared the insignificant whitewashed streak with the far-reaching continent of unwhitewashed fence, and sat down on a tree-box discouraged.
#The Adventures of Tom Sawyer — Mark Twain (1876)

“Christmas won’t be Christmas without any presents,” grumbled Jo, lying on the rug. “It’s so dreadful to be poor!” sighed Meg, looking down at her old dress. “I don’t think it’s fair for some girls to have plenty of pretty things, and other girls nothing at all,” added little Amy. “We’ve got Father and Mother, and each other,” said Beth contentedly, from her corner. The four young faces brightened at the cheerful words, but darkened again as Jo said sadly, “We haven’t got Father, and shall not have him for a long time.”
#Little Women — Louisa May Alcott (1868)

It was the best of times, it was the worst of times, it was the age of wisdom, it was the age of foolishness, it was the epoch of belief, it was the epoch of incredulity, it was the season of Light, it was the season of Darkness, it was the spring of hope, it was the winter of despair. We had everything before us, we had nothing before us, we were all going direct to Heaven, we were all going direct the other way—in short, the period was so far like the present period, that some of its noisiest authorities insisted on its being received, for good or for evil, in the superlative degree of comparison only.
#A Tale of Two Cities — Charles Dickens (1859)

At first people refused to believe that a strange child was standing in the grounds. Some of them even said she had no right to be there and that the key she carried must have been stolen. But Mary was not afraid of their words or their glances. She stood very straight and looked them all in the face. After a while, one of the gardeners spoke, asking how she had found the old key. Mary answered briefly, explaining nothing of what she had done, but inside she was thrilled with a strange, eager excitement.
#The Secret Garden — Frances Hodgson Burnett (1911)

He never went out without a book under his arm, and he often came back with two. He had a smile for everyone, a tear in his eye for the misfortunes of others, and a steady courage for his own. His soul was as open as a child’s; and yet it was full of strength, drawn from the vastness of love and kindness which he bore within him. To know him was to understand that gentleness and strength are not opposites, but companions.
#Les Misérables — Victor Hugo (1862)

